Docs - Merge Develop and Protocol Docs (#924)
iota-wiki/iota-wiki: shimmer/develop/explanations/what-is-stardust/data-processing.md

Reviewer: Nice article.Maybe out of the scope of this article, but should the fact that the Tangle doesn‘t store data blocks be more prominent? And also that storing data in utxo may be a (costlier) alternative?

Author: We can certainly include it. Can you point me to a doc where I can retrieve the specs?

Reviewer: Not sure if there is any good specs for that.
Just the tip for a [tagged block](https://wiki.iota.org/tips/tips/TIP-0023/) (which will be completely pruned by nodes) and the [metadata feature](https://wiki.iota.org/tips/tips/TIP-0018/#metadata-feature) in outputs (which costs storage deposit and therefore won't be pruned)

Reviewer: Great work

---
keywords:
- Stardust
- Shimmer
- Upgrades
- Data transactions
- Data processing
- Protocol Improvements
- explanation
description: Data transactions are supported in Stardust, but application specific data processing is off-loaded to external applications.
image: /img/logo/preview.png
---

# Offloading Data Processing

IOTA is unique in that it provides data-only transactions in the Tangle. However, use-cases that build on this feature
face two major problems:
- The Tangle is permissionless, therefore anyone can send data blocks with any content and the blocks are not
  authenticated with signatures like value transactions. The source of the data published through the Tangle is not
  identifiable by the core protocol.
- Data use-case applications often rely on structured, filtered and processed application-specific data. Such
  functionality puts unnecessary load on network nodes running the core protocol.

Stardust removes any data processing from the core protocol, as supporting use-case specific processing requirements
in the core protocol is unfeasible – and anyway, it would jeopardize node performance and hence transaction throughput
in the network.

> Data in Stardust is published via [Tagged Data Payloads](https://github.com/iotaledger/tips/blob/main/tips/TIP-0023/tip-0023.md), which are treated

Reviewer: Ser, when use our Wiki? :sadness:

```suggestion
Data in Stardust is published via [Tagged Data Payloads](https://wiki.iota.org/shimmer/tips/tips/TIP-0023), which are treated
```
